Let's dive into how authentication works in a rect native app. We have the react native app and we
have a server,
the server can be the firebase server, can be your own server,
the server is where we in the end authenticate a user, where we create new users and store them in a
database or where we compare an entered email address and password with the data we have in the database
to decide whether a user did successfully login or not.
So the server typically exposes at least two API endpoints and the react native app sends auth requests
either to create a new user or to sign an existing user in. The server responds with something and you
could think that that something is a session as you use it in a lot of web applications,
there you have a strong connection between the server and the views you render,
so the frontend code which runs. Not so here, just like with single page applications, the react native app
is decoupled from the server,
the server is stateless, it's a restful API and it works standalone, it doesn't care about the individual
app that was connected to it.
So we have no session but a token, a jw token so a json web token to be precise,
that's basically some encoded string or some encoded data that you can also decode on the frontend
so it's not encrypted, just encoded and it contains some information about the user, the validity of the token and
so on
and important,
it's created in a way that only the server can verify whether it's valid or not, this make sure that
you can't just copy the token on the frontend or fake it,
the server can always validate if you are passing it a valid token or not
but before passing the token somewhere, let's see what we do with it on the frontend. This token will
be our key to accessing protected resources on the server,
like for example creating a new place, we want to protect that and only allow it for authenticated user,
that token would be our key.
Therefore we store it on the frontend, in some form of storage,
that is where async storage will become important
and whenever we want to send a request to a protected resource, we attach the token to that request
and as I said, the server can then validate whether the token is well valid, if it is ok and can give
us back the response or possibly deny access.
This is how authentication works in a react native app,
it's exactly the same pattern as in a single page application if you know that
and therefore this is what we will implement here.
Now let's start implementing this
and let's start by connecting our auth screen to our backend so that we can sign a user up and then
also sign the user in. And then we'll step by step add logic to also use the token and so on.